Activity File: Exploring Kibana


You are a DevOps professional and have set up monitoring for one of your web servers. You are collecting all sorts of web log data and it is your job to review the data regularly to make sure everything is running smoothly.


Today, you notice something strange in the logs and you want to take a closer look.


Your task: Explore the web server logs to see if there's anything unusual. Specifically, you will:


⚠ Heads Up: These sample logs are specific to the time you view them. As such, your answers will be different from the answers provided in the solution file.


Instructions


Add the sample web log data to Kibana.


Answer the following questions:


In the last 7 days, how many unique visitors were located in India? 
Answer:224 unique visitors in India in the last 7 days.

In the last 24 hours, of the visitors from China, how many were using Mac OSX? 
Answer: 65 OSx user from China in the last 24 hours.

In the last 2 days, what percentage of visitors received 404 errors? How about 503 errors?
Answer: 404 4,762% and 503 2.381% errors received in the last 2 days.

In the last 7 days, what country produced the majority of the traffic on the website?
Answer: China 261 majority of the traffic is website in the last 7 days.

Of the traffic that's coming from that country, what time of day had the highest amount of activity?
Answer: 12:00 pm and 1:00 pm highest amount of activity from China.

List all the types of downloaded files that have been identified for the last 7 days, along with a short description of each file type (use Google if you aren't sure about a particular file type).
Answer: Download Files are gz, zip, css, deb, rpm. 



Now that you have a feel for the data, Let's dive a bit deeper. Look at the chart that shows Unique Visitors Vs. Average Bytes.

Locate the time frame in the last 7 days with the most amount of bytes (activity).
In your own words, is there anything that seems potentially strange about this activity?
Answer: 1 visitors has 16,750 Avg.Bytes comapre to other visitors average. bytes. Visitors might be downloading some malicious linx file or might be updating linux files. It need to be monitored. 


Filter the data by this event.

What is the timestamp for this event?
Answer: 09-12-2-2021 @  21:00:00.0 -> 09-13-2021 @ 00:00:00.0. 22:00 timestamp. 
Answer: File was downloaded is rpm.
From what country did this activity originate?
Answer: Originate in India
What HTTP response codes were encountered by this visitor?
Answer: 200 HHTP response codes.



Switch to the Kibana Discover page to see more details about this activity.

What is the source IP address of this activity?
Answer: 35.143.166.159 source IP address.
What are the geo coordinates of this activity?
Answer: India is the geo source.
What OS was the source machine running?
Answer: Windows 8 OS.
What is the full URL that was accessed?
Answer: https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/metricbeat/metricbeat-6.3.2-i686.rpm
From what website did the visitor's traffic originate?
Answer: http://facebook.com/success/jay-c-buckey



Finish your investigation with a short overview of your insights.

What do you think the user was doing? 
Answer: Download linux package.
Was the file they downloaded malicious? If not, what is the file used for? 
Answer: linux package is not malicious but it can be use to malicious activity. 
Is there anything that seems suspicious about this activity?
Answer: Not at this momment but still need to be monitored. 
Is any of the traffic you inspected potentially outside of compliance guidlines?
Answer: Facebook is not ideal to post linux package. 



